---
adr: 019
status: ✅ accepted
date: 2024-11-12
deciders: nlamirault
consulted:
informed:
---

# ADR 019 - Mobile Device Management (MDM)

## 📝 Context and Problem Statement

Mobile Device Management (MDM) is a system used by organizations to monitor, manage, and secure employees’ mobile
devices—like smartphones, tablets, and laptops—that are used for work purposes. MDM enables IT departments to control
various aspects of mobile devices, ensuring data security and consistent configurations across an organization’s
devices.

Key Functions:

- Device Enrollment and Configuration: Automatically configures devices with the necessary settings, apps, and permissions.
- Security Management: Enforces security policies, such as password protection, remote lock, and data encryption. In case of a lost or stolen device, MDM can remotely wipe the device.
- App Management: Allows IT admins to manage app installations, updates, and permissions remotely.
- Content Management: Controls the distribution and access to documents, resources, and files.
- Compliance Enforcement: Ensures devices comply with organizational or regulatory standards, which is critical in fields like healthcare and finance.

## Considered Options

1. [FleetDM](https://fleetdm.com/)
2. [Miradore](https://www.miradore.com/)
3. [Relution](https://relution.io/)

## Pros and Cons of the Options

### FleetDM

- ✅ Linux, macOS, Windows, Chromebooks, and iOS devices (BYOD or corporate owned.)
- ✅ Device monitoring, software inventory management, and real-time updates.
- ✅ OSQuery
- ✅ Open Source

### Miradore

- ✅ Device tracking,
- ✅ Remote lock/wipe, and
- ✅ Basic application deployment
- 🚫 Open Source

### Relution

- ✅ Support for Apple, Android, and Windows devices
- ✅ Centralized management of devices and apps
- 🚫 Open Source

## 💡 Decision

We have decided to use **FleetDM**.

## 📈 Consequences

Deploy FleetDM into the Kubernetes cluster, and manage devices.
